So let's start by looking at a pretty straightforward function.
So we'll take two positional parameters and then we'll scoop up any extra ones and all we're going to
do here is just print out the parameters values.
OK.
So now we can of course call this function passing into parameters for A and B at say 1 and 2 and then
we can pass a few others and I'll use Crain's just to differentiate.
So when we do that we see that EIGRP one big or two and then it's got the x y z parameters and that
became a table.
So that works just fine.
But there is a little catch here.
There are certain things that you can do.
You cannot start using keyword arguments to pass an A and B and still use these tongs.
In other words you can't do something like this.
Let's say a equals one be equals two and then X Y and Z.
The reason for that is because as you know if you remember from one of our earlier videos once you start
using keyword arguments when you're calling a function you can revert to positional arguments but these
X Y Z arguments are actually positional arguments so if you try and do that you'll get a syntax error.
Right.
That's going to be incorrect.
Now the same thing happens also if you try and do something like this.
Let's say we have a let's say we put a default value b equals 2 and then start args and then let's say
we have sequel's three in three and then we'll just print a b c
an ounce can.
So again we can just call this function passing in 1 to 3 and then let's say X Y and Z for the stars.
And that works as expected.
Right.
One B was to see was three.
If we had changed there two that say something else maybe four.
Then of course B becomes four.
But now what happens if I want to use the default value for B.
So I want to do maybe something like this.
Phunk A.
Now I want to skip be so the only way I can skip B is to specify C maybe.
So maybe I'll say C equals 0 5 and then I want to put the additional positional parameters while I can
write for the same reason.
So once I said sequel 5 because I want to skip B because I wanted to use its default value then I couldn't
do it right again or can't use a sorry that's passing value.
OK.
So I have no no.
Nothing in the style.
Now if I wanted to put something in the Star and the only way to do is to pass these extra positions.
But that doesn't work again because we're trying to specify a positional argument after we started using
a keyword argument.
So that doesn't work either.
So be careful the thing is when you start you know putting in default values for positions and you have
a start on then you can basically lose the ability to use the default values.
All right so now let's look at this example.
Funk a let's say B equals 2.
I'll put in a default value and I'll put in the stands which again as we know is really going to stop
us from using be you know B's default and then we'll take a keyword now and then we'll set it to a default
and then D.
So we have these loops and we're just going to print a B print and then C and D which key would only
arguments so we can call this function using something like fonk let's say 10 20.
We'll put in a few extra arguments x y and z and then we'll specify.
Now we have to use keyword arguments.
So we'll do see calls for Andy decals one.
So that works perfectly fine.
We can also if we want to do that is 10 20 x y z.
And then we're going to skip use defining C because it has a default So it's an optional and then we'll
say d equals maybe 10.
And of course we get you know what we expect.
So that works properly.
But what happens if I want to do the following.
With say phunk one I want to use the default for B.
So I'm going to skip B right.
I'm going to say X Y Z.
And now I'm going to go back and maybe define B.
B equals 4 right c c I don't have to define.
So I'll skip it.
And d equals 10.
Well the problem here look what look at the error that we get.
We got that funk got multiple values for argument B.
Well if you think about what's going on here.
Here we have four positional arguments and here we're saying we need two and then the remaining ones.
But what happens in fact is that a got one B got x and so we've already actually assigned a value to
B because Python doesn't know that we were trying to skip be here even though we've got the key word
argument here.
It doesn't know that so it puts x in to B and then Y and Z into it.
So in fact you'll see what happens.
And of course you can't you know pass the same argument twice.
So if I remove the people's form then you'll see in fact what happened right.
EIGRP one begot X and then skipped Y and Z and then C defaulted to 3 and D was now 10.
All right so just a few caveats when you are using combinations of you know positional as with default
values and the star.
You've got to be a little careful because some things don't always work quite as expected.
All right the next thing I want to look at is maybe just do a full function so let's go ahead and say
def funk we'll say a comma.
Become a Star on commas C equals ten comedy equals 20 comma style style.
KW Thanks.
And then here we're just going to print everything.
A B C D and Young's.
So now of course we can call this function this way we can pass two values.
There will be a and b.
So let's do one in two.
Then we have the args themselves which is x y z.
Then we have C and D now C and D have to be passed this keyword and they both have default so I actually
don't have to specify any of them but I will in this case I'll say C equals 100.
D equals 200.
And then we can pass in some extra keyword arguments as well.
Maybe we'll say X equals 0.1 and y equals zero point two.
All right let's leave it at that.
And then of course what we get is was one B was to the remaining positional go into C and D were assigned
100 and 200 respectively.
And then the remaining keyword arguments go into the counts.
Right.
So that's just how it works.
Now one thing I want to look at is some examples of functions that actually use this kind of stuff and
how it uses it.
And you know where those especially the stuff the these keyword arguments can really become useful as
well as the star.
And so a very simple example where we use all the time is print.
So if we look at print and we saw that in the lecture slides now the help here doesn't actually write
that others stuff you know objects it just says value comma dot dot dot.
But what it means is that they've got a star arms in.
Right.
They've got us down and in the documentation they call it Star objects where objects is the name of
the variable.
But it's just our arms that the same thing.
So it's something that scooping up all your positional parameters and then of course after that we now
have keyword arguments and their key word only arguments and they all have a default.
So here's what happens when we say print one comic to come and three that in fact what's happening is
that it's collecting the positional.
Right.
Using this stuff that's in the the first parameter of the print function.
So it prints out one space to space three new line right.
If I was to print that safe here four five six as well.
You'll notice that there's a new line after the three because we're all standing on the next line when
the prints they've been runs again.
And that comes from these keyword parameters that all have default values.
And you can see that here we have surp which is the separator which is the default of a space.
That's what gets printed between the characters.
So if I was to do something like this.
Print one color to come in three.
And then surp equals and I'll change the separator to maybe a dash right and then I'll print again four
five six and again will print the set will change the separator and make it a dash.
So as you can see what we've done here when we called Print we passed in three position balls and then
we then put in the keyword only arguments so we put seven equal to that.
So we get a there's no in between.
And of course the same thing if you want to change your new line.
Well all you have to say is and equals backslash and will be a new line.
Right.
That's what comes at the end now I don't have to put a new line.
I could just put let's say for space starstuff space and let's see what happens when I do that.
Well you can see that one two three dashes.
Then we have the space three stars of space and then the four five six with dashes in between.
So this is kind of a typical usage of keyword arguments.
Very often that's how functions work.
They have their kind of default you know positional parameters and then if you want to modify the behavior
of the function you can do so and then you use you.
You don't use these keyword only arguments.
So that's kind of a neat way of setting up your functions.
So let's look at an example that we might build ourselves.
Let's say we do this called Hailo average.
Well we looked at in the lecture.
So the first thing is I'm going to want to you know collect as many positional parameters as are being
you know used in the call to this function and then we're also going to do now a keyword only parameter.
Right because it comes out of the stack args.
So the positional parameters have been exhausted and we'll make that depilated false.
And then here I'm going to say hi equals.
Well technically the high would be the max of the things right.
But the problem is that ants could be empty.
Right star arms doesn't require a parameter.
So I'm going to allow people to send you know.
No probe no values no arguments for these positions in which case I want the high the low and the average
to be zero.
So how would I do that.
Well if it's a topple if the table is empty it's going to be falsie right.
So I could say something like that.
And of course I want high to be a number.
So I want to convert this Arne's here to the number zero.
Right.
And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to make it a boolean and then I'm going to convert it to an
end.
So first I'm going to explicitly set it to a bully and then make a dent because I can just convert a
tuple to an end.
I first need to take the truth value the associated truth value of args explicitly so for that I need
to convert it to a ball.
Right.
Or maybe what I do is just going to basically extract the truth value of things which if it's empty
is going to be zero.
Well it's going to be false.
Right.
And then I'm going to convert that explicitly to a zero to an integer zero.
And so if the integer is 0 then high will be zero.
And the only way that's going to be 0 is if x is empty otherwise it's going to return the max of the
values inside the table.
So this is not combining a few things from a few variables back of you know when we looked at booleans
and how the and operator works and how we can use that to you know short circuit with the evaluations.
And then lo we're going to do exactly the same thing.
We're going to take end of bhool now.
OK.
Let me write it a little differently.
I'm going to write into using the if statement the way you might you know do it.
Not using this short circuit a thing so I might say if it's not you might actually even do this if and
if the length of arms is equal to zero then set the low equal to zero else set the low equal to the
men.
Now.
OK.
So this will work as well.
This is kind of equivalent to what I wrote over here.
So this is just a simpler syntax maybe a little harder to read when you're not used to it.
But if you get used to it then you know this kind of makes sense quite easily.
This of course is a lot more explicit.
Right.
You can even use the turn energy operator if you want.
For this one here.
In which case you might do something like this you might say low is equal to the men of if land of is
greater than zero else.
Zero.
Right.
You can also write it this way instead of using the if else statement.
You can just use that turn right operator.
All right so I'll leave it at that.
And then average nine this face is going to be equal to high plus low provided by two.
And we want to return the average.
Right.
That's what our function does.
However now we're going to use this.
He would only to also log it to the council.
If we are requested to do so if this is true.
So we can say if larget to console I'm going to print and here will say that the high is equal to this.
The low is equal to the low and the average is equal to the average.
This will be real number one in the 2 index and then we'll format this passing in high low and average
OK.
So that's our function.
So now we can say you know average equals out high and low average and I'm going to average out and
you know it spurs one two three four five.
While the low is one the highest five.
So the average is going to be five plus one divided by two is going to be three.
OK.
And I'm going to not specify a lot to cancel which means it's going to default to false.
So when I do that and I can print the average out just can see that we've got at least the correct results.
They would go 3.00 But of course I might be running the program and say well you know what as I'm debugging
maybe I'm going to say log it to console equals and maybe you have coded here or maybe you have you
know and is de-bug flag and with say the D-bag flag is true.
So you just said it here is de-bug.
And so now you know you can set that in your module or wherever.
And then when your program is running it's going to larget to the console as it runs.
And so when we do that we can see that not log.
So again this is just an example of you know how sometimes keyword only arguments are used to modify
the behavior of the function.
Sometimes also what happens is that you just have too many parameters.
In this you know in this function call and maybe you've got five six seven parameters and you know it's
it can be really a problem if you've specified the values in the wrong order and then remember every
time what's the order of the parameters.
So in that case you may very well decide to build a function like this where you say def func and then
you immediately start and you say OK I'm only going to taking key word only arguments right.
That's what the star does.
There are no positional arguments before that.
Or maybe you'd have one or two.
Maybe you'd have you know one of the main ones and then everything else is going to be you know he would
only arguments and you might do something like that.
So kind of depends.
But anyway hopefully this gives you a good feel for how the parameters and the arguments work with Python
functions.
And really you should play around with this just try out different definitions you know try calling
it in different ways.
See how it works.
That's going to be the best way for you to you know really understand and really kind of you know follow
along with functions and their parameters and their arguments.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.